This repository contains an interesting way of generating a random height for an entry
in a [skip list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skip_list) in a x86_64 CPU. The main
algorithm can be found in `random_level.h`, named `get_random_level`. It expects two
numbers as parameters:

1. A value derived from $p$: The chance that, if the node is in level $k$, it's also
   in level $k + 1$. Specifically, its negated log base 2 encoded as a fixed point
   real number with 6 bits of integer part and 26 bits of fractional part (see the
   `mkconstant.py` script);
2. The maximum value the function is allowed to produce.

And produces a number as if had flipped coins with chance $p$ of landing on heads
until it got tails and then returned the amount of heads it got.

It's based on the function $f(x) = 1 + { log(x) \over log(p) }$, which, when sampled
with uniform values in the range $(0, 1]$, produces the desired effect when the
resulting number is floored.

In order to approximate the $log$ function, which I chose to be base 2, I used fixed
point numbers and employed the x86_64 LZCNT instruction, as well as a bit of bit
twiddling and math.

The function, when optimized by a modern compiler, seems to run even faster than a
traditional loop, at least on my machine.

- `rng.{c,h}` implements xoshiro256+, the PRNG algorithm used;
- `random_level.h` provides `get_random_level`, to generate levels with a custom
  $p$, `get_random_level_few` to use $p = 1/4$, `get_random_level_mid` for $p = 5/16$
  and `get_random_level_many` for $p = 1/e$;
- `demo.c` generates 10 million heights using each of the provided functions and
  prints a CSV containing the distribution of the values generated by each one. To
  compile it, run `make` for a debug build and `release` for an optimized one.
- `mkconstant.py`, since `get_random_level` requires the negated log base 2 of `p`
  encoded in fixed point with 6 bits of integer part and 26 bits of fractional part,
  this script does that work for you;
- `benchmark/` contains a few benchmarks of my algorithm versus some normal ones,
  using Google's benchmark thing. To build, run `make` inside the directory.

Benchmark example, after running in user space with no preparation:

```
2026-05-24T12:46:25-03:00
Running ./bench
Run on (8 X 2300 MHz CPU s)
CPU Caches:
  L1 Data 32 KiB (x4)
  L1 Instruction 64 KiB (x4)
  L2 Unified 512 KiB (x4)
  L3 Unified 4096 KiB (x1)
Load Average: 2.39, 2.83, 2.95
***WARNING*** CPU scaling is enabled, the benchmark real time measurements may be noisy and will incur extra overhead.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Benchmark                       Time             CPU   Iterations
-----------------------------------------------------------------
basic_random_level           6.80 ns         6.76 ns    111294632
redis_random_level           11.9 ns         11.8 ns     60282092
rocksdb_random_level         5.94 ns         5.92 ns    117470117
veigaribo_random_level       3.89 ns         3.88 ns    183228430
```
